# UCI Coursework Project
This project involved extracting and cleaning up pseudo-data in preparation for thematic analysis. Data extraction and visualizations were manually coded in Python and the following analysis is my interpretation of the emerging patterns.

## Analysis
  Cultural Consensus Theory argues that the agreement between informants is proportional to their knowledge of a shared cultural consensus. This implementation of the Cultural Consensus Theory model uses PyMC to analyze a dataset and estimate two components: informant competence (Dᵢ for each informant i) and cultural consensus answers (Zⱼ for each question j). The observed informant responses (Xᵢⱼ) from N informants to M questions is modulated by informant competence Dᵢ along with the consensus answer Zⱼ. For each response Xᵢⱼ, the probability that a more competent informant is more likely to agree with the answer Zⱼ is represented by p = Zⱼ × Dᵢ + (1 − Zⱼ) × (1 − Dᵢ). 
  Since informant competance Dᵢ has a probability scale from 0 to 1, we choose a uniform prior distribution with Dᵢ ≥ 0.5 based on the assumption that each informant i has basic familiarity with the consensus for plant knowledge. A uniform distribution within the scale 0.5 to 1 allows us to assume there is an equally likely probability that informant competance lies within the range of individuals guessing to individuals being well-versed in the domain. 
  As for each consensus answer Zⱼ, we use the Bernoulli distribution because we know the true answers are binary and can assume that there is an equal likelihood that the cultural consensus is 0 or 1. 
  We then draw 2000 samples with 4 chains using PyMC and the resulting posterior diagnostics indicate that the model converges since all r-hat values are exactly equal to 1.0. 
  Additionally, we calculate and visualize the posterior mean competence Di for each informant which allows us to identify the most competent individual, Informant 5 with the highest mean D = 0.875 and the least competent, Informant 2 with the lowest mean D = 0.561. The informant competence estimates overall lie within the range (0.50, 0.80), however 5 out of 10 informants have an estimated competence within the range (0.50, 0.60). We can infer that most of the tested inviduals are familiar with plant knowledge but are unlikely to be experts in the subject.
  The posterior mean probability for each consensus answer Zⱼ was also calculated along with the majority answer for each question by checking if more than 50% of informants responded. Comparing these two shows us that 15 estimated consensus answers out of 20 majority answers are matching. This 75% match suggests a substantial shared knowledge that is consistent with the cultural answer key, however, the remaining 25% difference may be due the previous observation that half of the informants have a mean competence Dᵢ closer to the lower range (0.50), implying that they may be likely to guess answers. Despite this difference, the 75% result indicates that the consensus mostly aligns with the majority and reflects the core Cultural Consensus Theory idea that agreement among informants is generally proportional to shared cultural knowledge. 
